# Sentiment-Analysis

# I.	 	Introduction
For this project, I analyzed 3 articles about America’s job market and how way fewer jobs were added in April 2021. Employers looking for workers couldn't find them, while many laid-off people remained on the sidelines waiting for a return to normalcy. For my project, I wanted to see which words have the most impact on the sentiment of an event like this. I used three articles from different news outlets which were Wall Street Journal (WSJ), CNBC and CNN. These articles were first all saved as .txt files to be cleaned later. First, using a Python script (Figure A) I was able to stem the text files, remove all stopwords and tokenize the rest of the elements in the text. This was done for all three of the documents individually. The python script then saves the cleaned text as a .txt file (Figure D) to be processed through other tools such as Sentiment Analysis (Figure B) and Voyant (Figure C). After plugging the data into Voyant we were able to determine which 10 words (that were in all three documents) had the most significance in the article as well as their frequency.



# II.	The Analysis
After cleaning our data in Python we used the Sentiment Analysis tool to classify the attitude of the text. As a result we determined that CNN article has the most negative tone of -82.8, CNBC article is essentially neutral and has a sentiment score of 0.9, and WSJ article is somewhat positive with the score of 25.2. Seeing as these were the results of the Sentiment, we then used Voyant Text Analysis to determine which words were the most frequent and which words had the most significance for each article. For the WSJ article the words with the most significance were: workers(11), april(10), jobs(10), labor(9), pandemic(9), rate(8), month(7), people(7), unemployment(7), average(6). For the CNBC article the words with the most significance were: jobs(7), rate(6), amid(5), hiring(5), level(5), march(5), pace(5), people(5), workers(5), employment(4). For the CNN article the most significant words were: jobs(1), month(1), pandemic(1), market(7), april(1), labor(1), economists(5), workers(5), employment(4), million(4).  Using EXCEL, we did binary and frequency coding to visualize these numbers. We then did df-idf coding in order to see the weight of each word. Using this, we were able to then compare the weight of each word corresponding to each article to determine which word or words had the greatest impact on the sentiment of an article. The WSJ article had the most positive sentiment, and the words with the most significance were “workers”, “unemployment” and “average”. CNBC had a neutral sentiment and the most impactful words were “hiring”, “level”, “march” and “pace”. CNN’s article was the most negative article and its most impactful words were “market”, “economists”, and “million”.

Our main question for our analysis was “How can a political or marketing campaign project a message when they relay financial information to the public while maintaining their agenda?”. This is followed up by three subquestions which were: 1) How can said political or marketing campaign relay a more positive message?. 2) How can said political or marketing campaign relay a more neutral message? 3) How can said political or marketing campaign relay a more negative message? We believe that our analysis shows which words are the most impactful in relaying a more positive, neutral or negative message. A political and/or marketing campaign could use this analysis in coming up with their own message when financial information is released. The numbers don’t lie, the april jobs report was not good economic news for the United States. However, our analysis was able to provide us with the means of making the news into something more positive, neutral or negative.


# III.	Conclusion
In conclusion, the April jobs report fell very short of expectations. Many news outlets reported on the news in their own way with their own agendas. Our analysis took in three articles from WSJ, CNBC and CNN, respectively. After having stemmed, removed stopwords and tokenized the .txt files in Python, we then plugged each cleaned file into the Sentiment Analysis Tool. Sentiment analysis showed that WSJ had a positive sentiment, CNBC a neutral sentiment and CNN with a very negative sentiment. Using Voyant we were able to determine which words had the most significance and the frequency of those words. Finally, after having done binary and frequency coding, we constructed an array for Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency to determine the weight of the most significant words. This helped us determine which words held the most weight in the positive, neutral and negative article. Our analysis can help improve marketing campaigns anywhere in portraying a message that fits their agenda, regardless of what the news is.

# Appendix

Figure A

